In the previous video I help introduce how to create an exec you trust Nopes into unargued who are the
first example presented a simple toker application that publishes the messages.
And the second application subscribes to a topic to control the on off switch of the lead of the argument.
But in both cases the server in the package is a serial Python was used as a bridge between resetting
and Arduino.
The Arduino board and the Rustico system on the workstation in this video will give up a more elaborate
example that uses the sonic laser scanner but estimates there is an obstacle and that publishes it to
the Ross ecosystem.
As you look at the architecture of the application Our STARTING POINT will be the Arduino code that
we presented earlier and that allows us to estimate the distance to an obstacle by using the time of
flight information day after we estimate the value of the range.
We put it inside our message and publish it through a topic to the ecosystem via Sariel by phone bridge.
While it is possible to transfer the message as a single value or as a string value we will use the
be defined trust message for changes that is code.
The answer is yes age which is a specific message that carries out the range data but only the value
of the measurement range.
But also other data about the sensor.
Let us look at the structure of this last message.
You can look at the documentation of this change message in the documentation website of the US more
like any other message that each message has a header message that defines the time stamp and some other
parameters.
It also has a field of ideation type which can be 0 for sound and unique sensors and one for infrared
sensors.
In our case we will use the body of zero as we have with the sonic sensor the sensor message also defines
the field of view.
That is the size of the arc but the distance reading is voted for in our case.
We only have one measurement so we can put anybody value as it is obsolete for our unique sensor that
age message also define the minimum and maximum ranges which are characteristics of the sonic sensor
and defers from one sensor to another.
In our case we really use to something meters as a minimum range and 1.5 meters as a maximum wage.
Finally and most importantly the value of the age which is the estimated using the arguable program
that we present it earlier for every new range measurement will update the timestamp of the header and
the range.
You measure all other values like minimum range maximum age of your should take our study and do not
change from one measurement to another.
Now we understood the principle lets see how it is implemented and executed.
First let us open the
and then we open doors are the sketch that determines the range value and publishes it as a sensor and
as yes range the last message which is this program.
So this is the code I have written for this purpose.
And you can get it from the G ID her repository.
The structure of the code is similar to any program running on workstation.
First we include the libraries and here specifically we include the library sensor MSDS slashings got
H which contains the specification of the range sensor.
This message is defined in the folder there are libraries or sleep sensor images Yes.
And here we have a range that age
as you can observe the range that age fine defines a class for the message range which contains all
the attributes I have presented earlier including the head the radiation type.
The field of view the minimum age the maximum range and the range value this glass will be used to create
range messages in the original program.
Let's go back to the Arduino program for now through the inclusion of the libraries.
We declared the node hundert that will be used to create a Rosse arguido note.
Then we defined the message range M.Z. from the class sensor.
MSDS range also we create the publisher object bobbery age that will be used to publish a range of messages
on the topic slushed ultrasonic underscore range.
The constructor also takes as parameter a reference to.
Message created.
We defined the frame ID needed in the header part of the message.
The frame ID is made equal to ultrasonic.
We will talk more about frames when we present the DFA transformation in a later video.
For now it is not necessary to know anything as the ultrasonic sensor will be connected to pin number
7.
We create a constant Being been assigned to the value of 7 then two boolean constant values centimeters
and inches that we will specify whether the distance should be estimated in centimeters or in inches.
The initialization occurs in the setup function.
As usual we initialize the node using anything.
And we advertise the publisher Bizarros must note that we define the static parameters of that age message
which are meta data about the range sensor the radiation type is set to the constant value sensor MSDS
range ultrasound because we are using an ultrasonic sensor.
The frame ID is set to the frame ID value that we defined above.
We try Sonic you provide any fake value to the field of view as it is obsolete.
In our case as I explained earlier also we set a value of 2 centimeters for the medium range and 1.5
metre for the maximum age all these parameters defined in the setup function of static in the sense
that they do not change over time.
The next function is going to get the range which basically implements the same algorithm for range
estimation that we have presented in the lecture talking about programming real sense with Arduino.
Remember that the concept is to send a low high low sequence of passes through the signal be configured
as output.
Then listen to the echo response in the same being configured as input based on the roundtrip mutation.
We estimate the distance droplet which also refers to the range to the obstacle.
The distance is then implemented in centimeter or in inches.
Finally the loop method is very simple and compliments the logic of the application first.
First it updates the value of the range message with the last measured estimated distance.
It also updates the time stamp duty with the current time.
And finally it publishes the Rangers message and spin once and repeats the same process every 500 millisecond.
Let us know upload this code to the Arduino abort the code is now uploaded and the part is slash slash.
Did you.
AC zero.
We can verify that the range message published by the Arduino board can be seen by the rest nodes running
on the workstation.
Let us first run scott
very and us Russ topic list and you can see now we have only two topics out and draws our attack.
We don't have any topic for the moment related to the ultra sonic sensor.
Like we did before.
We need to start the process server by running the command.
So give us the real Python serial underscored no good bye slash death slash.
Why.
AC zero.
Because this is the port to which the Arduino board is connected.
Now the server was started.
And you can see the public should engage messages.
Again let's try a stop at least you can now observe the topic slushed ultrasonic range that was defined
in the arguido program.
Let us see the information of this topic.
Using the command post topic Imphal slash put us on the page and here you can see that the publishing
not is silly.
No.
And the type of publish your message is the answer is yes.
Slusher h.
Which is the message type that we use in the Arduino program.
Finally we can run the command cross topic echo slash our song underscoring range topic and here we
can find the in value so upset at the very highest value is now 17 18 centimeters.
I'm going to go closer and closer and you can see that the range value is growing smaller and smaller.
Now I'll take the obstacle far away and you can see that the range is becoming bigger and bigger.
So it is increasing or it is decreasing.
Based on the distance to the obstacle you can see from the range value that we are able to get the ultrasonic
range in the Ross ecosystem.
Congratulation.
Now you know the whole process and the workflow to deploy any Arduino board with drops and you can collect
any kind of sensor data.
Of course if you use different sensors you need to use different messages.
You can check whether there are existing sensors messages or defined and that meet the requirement of
the sensor data to be carried out.
Otherwise you can create your own custom message and use them to transport data.
Otherwise you can create your own custom Rosse messages and use them to transport data between Arduino
under us.
The other process is exactly the same as it was presented in this lecture.